---
layout: post
title:  The Quantum Theory of the Electron 
feature-img: "assets/img/QFT/feynmandiagram.jpg"
---














<h2>shrodinger equation is</h2>
<p></p>

$$ i \hbar \frac{\partial \psi (x,t)}{\partial t} = -\frac{\hbar^2}{2m} \nabla^2 \psi (x,t) + V\psi (x,t) $$

<p>This equation is first order in time derivatives and secod order in space derivatives linking the evolution of paticles quantum state to its energy and momentum</p>
<p>We should define the general potential energy of the system and solve for the wavefunction, $\psi(x,t)$ and wavefunction contains all the information about the system but the problem is it's not directly measurable and by calculating $|\psi(x,t)|^2$ we have the probability density that tells us where we are most likely to find the particle</p>
<p>start with the non-relativistic energy momentum relation:</p>

$$ E = \frac{p^2}{2m}+V $$

<p style="color:orange;">p is the momentum vector of the particle</p>
<p style="color:red;">m is the mass</p>
<p style="color:green;">V is the potential energy</p>

<p>In quantum mechanics we promote the energy and momentum to operators that act on the wavefunction so we have:</p>

$$ E \longrightarrow i\hbar \frac{\partial}{\partial t} $$

$$ p \longrightarrow -i\hbar \nabla $$

<p>and then we have time dependent Schrodinger equation</p>

$$ i\hbar \frac{\partial \psi}{\partial t} = \Big(-\frac{\hbar^2}{2m}\nabla^2+V\Big)\psi $$

<p>The evolution of the wavefunction is fully determined by its value at a single instant e.g. $t=0$</p>

<p></p>

<p>(a) Derive Maxwell’s equations as the Euler-Lagrange equations of this action, treating the components $A_{\mu\nu}$ as the dynamical variables. Write the equations in standard form by identifying $E^{i} = -F^{0i}$ and $\epsilon^{ijk}B^{k} = -F^{ij}$.</p> 
<p>(b) Construct the energy-momentum tensor for this theory. Note that the usual procedure does not result in a symmetric tensor. To remedy that, we can add to $T^{\mu\nu}$ a term of the form $\partial_{\lambda}K^{\lambda\mu\nu}$, where $K^{\lambda\mu\nu}$ is antisymmetric in its first two indices. Such an object is automatically divergenceless, so</p>

$$ \hat{T}^{\mu\nu} = T^{\mu\nu} + \partial_{\lambda} K^{\lambda\mu\nu}$$

<p>is an equally good energy-momentum tensor with the same globally conserved energy and momentum. Show that this construction, with</p>

$$ K^{\lambda\mu\nu} = F^{\mu\lambda} A^{\nu}, $$

<p>leads to an energy-momentum tensor T that is symmetric and yields the standard formulae for the electromagnetic energy and momentum densities:</p>

$$ \varepsilon = \frac{1}{2} (E^2+B^2);\;\;\;\; S = E\times B. $$

<br><br><br>
<p>2. The complex scalar field. Consider the field theory of a complex-valued scalar field obeying the Klein-Gordon equation. The action of this theory is</p>

$$ S = \int d^{4}x (\partial_{\mu}\phi^{\ast}\partial^{\mu}\phi-m^{2}\phi^{\ast}\phi) .$$

<p>It is easiest to analyze this theory by considering $\phi(x)$ and $\phi^{\ast}(x)$,  rather than the real and imaginary parts of $\phi(x)$,  as the basic dynamical variables. </p>
<p>(a) Find the conjugate momenta to $\phi(x)$ and $\phi^{\ast}(x)$ and the canonical commutation relations. Show that the Hamiltonian is</p>

$$ \mathcal{H} = \int d^{3}x (\pi^{\ast}\pi+\nabla\phi^{\ast}\cdot\nabla\phi+m^{2}\phi^{\ast}\phi). $$

<p>Compute the Heisenberg equation of motion for $\phi(x)$ and show that it is indeed the Klein-Gordon equation.</p>
<p>(b) Diagonalize $\mathcal{H}$ by introducing creation and annihilation operators. Show that the theory contains two sets of particles of mass $m$.</p>
<p>(c) Rewrite the conserved charge</p>

$$ Q = \int d^{3}x \frac{i}{2} (\phi^{\ast}\pi^{\ast}-\pi\phi) $$

<p>in terms of creation and annihilation operators, and evaluate the charge of the particles of each type.</p>
<p>(d) Consider the case of two complex Klein-Gordon fields with the same mass. Label the fields as $\phi_{a}(x)$, where $a=1,2$. Show that there are now four conserved charges, one given by the generalization of part (c), and the other three given by </p>

$$ Q^{i} = \int d^{3}x \frac{i}{2}(\phi^{\ast}_{a}(\sigma^{i})_{ab}\pi^{\ast}_{b}-\pi_{a}(\sigma^{i})_{ab}\phi_{b}), $$

<p>where $\sigma^{i}$ are the Pauli sigma matrices. Show that these three charges have the commutation relations of angular momentum $(SU(2))$. Generalize these results to the case of n identical complex scalar fields.</p>
<br><br><br>
<p>3. Evaluate the function</p>

$$ \bra{0} \phi(x)\phi(y) \ket{0} = D(x-y) = \int \frac{d^3p}{(2\pi)^3}\frac{1}{2E_{P}} e^{-ip(x-y)}, $$

<p>for $(x-y)$ spacelike so that $(x-y)^2 = -r^2$,  explicitly in terms of Bessel functions.</p>
