---
layout: post
title:  Particle Physics
feature-img: "assets/img/QFT/background.png"
---

This semester at **Sapienza University of Rome**, I have the **Particle Physics** course, taught by **Professor Shahram Rahatlou**. 

For anyone familiar with the field, Professor Rahatlou’s approach is both rigorous and insightful. You can find the official course page [here](https://www.roma1.infn.it/people/rahatlou/index.php?link=Didattica&sublink=ParticlePhysics) and the comprehensive repository of lecture materials and code on his [GitHub](https://github.com/rahatlou/ParticlePhysics/blob/PP2026/README.md).

While the official materials are excellent, I’ve always believed that the best way to truly internalize the **Standard Model**, **Symmetries**, and **Cross-section calculations** is to rewrite and synthesize them into a personal format. 

---

### What I’m Sharing Here

In this section of my blog, I am sharing my **personal lecture notes** and supplementary derivations from this course. These notes are my attempt to:

* **Bridge the gap** between complex theoretical Lagrangians and their experimental signatures.
* Provide **step-by-step walkthroughs** of calculations that sometimes feel "too obvious" in textbooks but are tricky for me in practice.
* Organize the wealth of information provided in class into a **searchable, digital format**.

---

### A Note on Collaboration

Since these are personal notes, they are a "work in progress." If you are a fellow student in the class or a researcher passing by and you spot a typo in a LaTeX formula or a conceptual misunderstanding, please let me know! Science is a collective effort, and I’d love to hear your perspective.

I hope these notes help you as much as the process of writing them is helping me.

---
*Connect with me on [Email](mailto:sina.etebar@posteo.net) or [X](https://x.com/sina_etebar) if you have any questions!*

| Date | Topic | Reference | Material |
|------|-------|-----------|----------|
| 2026-02-26 | Introduction. Unstable particles. Decay width and lifetime. Q value. | Griffiths Ch. 6, Terranova Ch. 2 | [pdf](/assets/pdf/PP-notes/Lecture1.pdf) |
